Good predictions and warnings save lives. Prediction is concerned with forecasting the occurence of an earthquake of a particular intensity
over a specific locality within a specific time limit. Normally prediction is of three types viz. long,medium and short range prediction.
While long range predictiom is concerned with with forecasting the occurence of an earthquake a number of years in advance,medium term 
prediction is to be done a few months to a year or so and the short term predictions implies forecast ranging from a few hours to some days in advance.
Medium and short range predictions are very useful because they can help in saving the largest population from disaster in terms of life and 
property. We believe that it is possible to predict the major earthquakes by monitoring the seismicity caused by natural earthquakes,
mining blasts,nuclear test etc.

From decades it has been a difficult job to predict earthquake. But with the advancement of technology and rapid development in the field of 
machine learning,data science, it has now become possible to predict certain impossible jobs.
Machine learning is used to find the relationship between the acoustic signal coming from the fault and how close it is to failing.
The machine learning algorithm was able to identify a particular pattern in the sound, previously thought to be nothing more than noise,
which occurs long before an earthquake. The characteristics of this sound pattern can be used to give a precise estimate (within a few percent)
of the stress on the fault (that is, how much force is it under) and to estimate the time remaining before failure, which gets more and more 
precise as failure approaches. Our idea is to analyze this sound pattern in a direct measure of the elastic energy that is in the system at a given time.

This will be the first time that machine learning will be used to analyse acoustic data to predict when an earthquake will occur, long before it does, 
so that plenty of warning time can be given.

The puzzle is how the machine can do this. According to Rouet-Leduc, seismic precursors can be much smaller than had previously been thought
and so are not usually recorded in the real world. The machine seems to have spotted an entirely new signal that geologists had previously dismissed as 
noise in the laboratory quakes. Our machine-learning analysis provides new insight into earthquake exploration.

So our idea can prove to be a milestone in earthquake predictions.
